BEES

bees is a general-purpose control application for aleph.

it creates networks for processing live input from knobs or external devices, 
and allows for some live manipulation of the current network.


//-----------------------------------
//--- terms
there are several layers of data organization used in bees,
so we must establish a consistent terminology, however silly:

CONTROL:	"control voltage" value, 4 bytes

MODULE: 	a DSP executable running on aleph's audio slave processor.

PARAMETER:	a direct input to an audio module, with some associated metadata.

INPUT:		input node in a control-processing network.

OUTPUT:		an output node in a control-processing network.

OPERATOR:  a unit of processing for control signals. (note*)
	   an operator has zero or more inputs and outputs.

PRESET:	  preset data can be manipulated in realish-time from within the network.
	  a given preset stores several things:
	  - the state of connections between output and input nodes,
	  - the state of all nodes and parameters.
	  - whether each of these states is excluded from future preset management.
	  
SCENE:	  scene data stores the actual composition of the control network,
	  as well as the identity and state of the running audio module.
	  scene manipulation is less suitable for live work.

(*note: not meant in the computer-science or group-theory senses, sorry!)



//-------------------------------
//----- menu layout

there are a fair number of pages in the bees menu system.
most are arranged in a circular list (the 'main menu'), scrolled through by the page knob (ENC0).

in the main menu list, each page maps knobs and function buttons to different functions, except:
- ENC0 (upper left) always scrolls between pages.
- ENC1 (upper right) always scrolls between selections on the current page.
- SW3  (rightmost switch) always accesses extra commands for pages that need them.
  sometimes this is in the form of alternate assignments for the other function switches,
  in which case the listing is 'ALTx' in the table below.
  (other times a sub-menu?)

function mapping for each page in the main menu:

INPUTS:
	SW0:	STORE:		store current value in current preset
	SW1:	INC/EXC:	toggle inclusion of this input in current preset management
	SW2:	CLEAR:		set input to zero
	SW3:	ALT:		momentarily enter alternate commands	
	ALT0: 	GATHER:		go to modal page with only the outputs connected to this input
	ALT1:	SHOW/HIDE:	toggle inclusion of this input in play-mode listing	
	ALT2:	FILT/ALL:	show only play-enabled inputs in this list, or show all (default).	
	ALTENC0: select preset for recall + edit

	ENC2:   ---		change parameter value, slow
	ENC3:	---		change parameter vlaue, fast
	       
ROUTING: 
	SW0:	STORE:		store current routing in current preset
	SW1:	INC/EXC:	toggle inclusion of this routing in current preset
	SW2:	CLEAR:		disconnect
	SW3:	ALT		
	ALT0:	FOLLOW:		select this output's target on inputs page, and go there
	ALT1:	SPLIT:		create a SPLIT operator and connect to its first input.
				       if operator was already connected, 
				       connect the split's output to its former target.
				       select the other split output.
	ENC2:	---	 	---
	ENC3:	---		scroll target input
	 
PRESETS: 
	SW0:	STORE:		store all nodes at this preset.
	SW1: 	RECALL:		overwrite all preset-included nodes with preset,
					  update inclusion for next recall.
	SW2:	COPY/OK:	begin copy / confirm and finish copy.
	SW3:	DEFAULT:	store current settings as default
	ENC2:	---		scroll position in name.
	ENC3:	---		scroll character at position.

SCENES:
	SW0:	STORE:		store current state of network to scene name.
				      if the name has been edited, a new file will be created.
	SW1:	RECALL:         load scene (halts network processing and may make noise).
	SW2:	COPY/OK:	begin copy / confirm and finish copy.
	SW3:	ALT:	
	ALT0:   DEFAULT:        store current settings as default
	ALT1:   ---
	ALT2:   CLEAR/OK:	clear the current scene
	ALT3:	---
	ENC2:   ---		scroll position in name.
	ENC3:	---		scroll character at position.

OPERATORS:
	SW0:	INPUTS:		select this op's inputs on ins page, and go there.
	SW1: 	OUTPUTS:	select this op's outputs on outs page, and go there.
	SW2:	CREATE:		add a new operator of selected type.
	SW3:	PAGE/LIST:	toggle op-specific subpage 
	ENC2:	---		---
	ENC3:	---		select operator type for creation.

MODULES:
	SW0:	LOAD:		load audio module from sdcard.
	SW1: 	DEFAULT:	write audio module to internal memory for startup.
	SW2:	---		---
	SW3:	---		---	
	ENC2:	---		---	
	ENC3:	---		---




PLAY:	 play mode is not on the main list, and is exclusively mapped to the mode button above the knobs.
	 in play mode, each switch and knob functions solely as an input to the control network,
	 via the system-created SW and ENC operators.
	 inputs and parameters with the SHOW option activated will generate UI feedback here.


these sub-pages are accessed from within the main menu. ENC0 will scroll out of them.

GATHER: like ROUTING, except only outputs that are connected to the selected input are shown. 

... ?



//-------------------------
//--- notes

--- storage

there are always a fixed number of presets, located in RAM.
scenes are stored on the sdcard and are limited only by the filesystem.
one scene is stored on internal flash instead, and is loaded at startup.


---- recall

recalling a scene triggers the loading of the module named in that scene. this includes a check between the version number stored in the scene and that reported by the module; bees will issue a warning if version numbers are mismatched.

after loading the hopefully-appropriate module, all parameter values are re-sent to the audio processor.
